env/content/company/about-us.md, before:

---
title: "About Us"
date: "2024-01-30T20:14:10Z"
draft: false
description: "Discover takara.ai, where advanced AI meets human creativity to transform businesses and empower humanity. With our expert guidance, unlock your organization's potential for a competitive edge in today's fast-paced world."
---

> **Takara means treasure.**

Welcome to [takara.ai](/), where we harness artificial intelligence not merely as a technological marvel but as a transformative force for businesses and humanity. Founded in 2024, our consultancy is committed to unlocking AI's vast potential, empowering individuals and organizations to excel in an increasingly competitive landscape.

### The Challenge: Mastering AI Implementation

The inception of takara.ai was inspired by a clear market gap: the intrigue surrounding AI's promise versus the reality of its implementation. We noticed businesses grappling with questions about AI integration: selecting the right models, integrating AI seamlessly into operations, and identifying the starting point for their AI journey.

Recognising this, takara.ai set out to be the compass that guides business leaders through the intricate landscape of artificial intelligence, offering clarity and direction in a complex field.

### The Origami Crane: A Symbol of Peace, Longevity and Good Fortune

<img src="https://takara.ai/images/logo-24/TakaraAi.svg" width="200" height="200" alt="The red takara crane logo" />

> I think Logo's are so important, they must have meaning and they must be recognisable. I spent a long time deciding what I wanted people to see and think... "That's TAKARA!" the origami crane has so much history, it's folded from nothing and becomes something and I wanted to relate to humanity since it's very easy to get lost in making everything look very modern and tech heavy. I engaged with Kiana at [IDAZA](https://www.idaza.io/) and she brought it to life how you see it today. I couldn't be happier. - Jordan Legg

### Our Team: Devoted AI Innovators

We're driven to be the best. We employ A-players in the AI and ML space with a mission to create solutions where no other company could.

See our team [here](/open-source/team).

Join us at [takara.ai](/) as we forge ahead, not just as service providers, but as partners in unveiling the hidden treasures within your organization, catalyzing growth and success. Together, let's navigate the transformative journey of AI.

## Company Information

**Company Number**: 15404713

Registered in England and Wales  
128 City Road, London, EC1V 2NX, UNITED KINGDOM

Commit message:

update: about us added more information and links

env/content/company/about-us.md, after:

---
title: "About Us"
date: "2024-01-30T20:14:10Z"
draft: false
description: "Discover takara.ai, where advanced AI meets human creativity to transform businesses and empower humanity. With our expert guidance, unlock your organization's potential for a competitive edge in today's fast-paced world."
---

## **Takara means treasure.**

Welcome to [takara.ai](/), where we harness artificial intelligence as a transformative force for businesses and humanity. Founded in 2024, our consultancy is committed to unlocking AI's vast potential, empowering individuals and organisations to excel in an increasingly competitive landscape.

### The Challenge: Mastering AI Implementation

At takara.ai, we address a critical market gap: the disparity between AI's promise and its practical implementation. Businesses often struggle with:

- Selecting the right models.
- Seamlessly integrating AI into operations.
- Identifying the starting point for their AI journey.

Recognising these challenges, takara.ai serves as a guiding compass for business leaders, offering clarity and direction in the complex field of artificial intelligence.

### The Origami Crane: A Symbol of Peace, Longevity, and Good Fortune

<img src="https://takara.ai/images/logo-24/TakaraAi.svg" width="200" height="200" alt="The red takara crane logo" />

> “Logos are crucial; they must have meaning and be recognisable. The origami crane symbolises transformation, much like our mission. Working with Kiana at [IDAZA](https://www.idaza.io/), we brought this vision to life. I couldn't be happier.” - Jordan Legg

### Our Team: Devoted AI Innovators

We employ top-tier AI and ML professionals dedicated to creating unparalleled solutions. Meet our team [here](/open-source/team).

Join us at [takara.ai](/) as partners in unveiling the hidden treasures within your organisation, catalysing growth and success. Together, let's navigate the transformative journey of AI.

---

## Company Information

**Company Number**: 15404713

Registered in England and Wales  
128 City Road, London, EC1V 2NX, UNITED KINGDOM
