content/what we do/ds1/_index.en-gb.md, before:

---
sys:
  id: "BXyTH26o6EdPb2I57XkzS"
  updatedAt: "2025-07-28T10:58:59.294Z"
  createdAt: "2025-07-30T08:08:57.661Z"
  revision: 9
  space: "hmvebmrbwhsg"
  contentType: "servicesPage"
date: "2025-07-28T10:58:59.294Z"
title: "DS1: Ultra-Efficient Embedding API"
slug: "ds1"
menu: true
group: false
summary: "This is DS1"
---

## Revolutionizing AI Accessibility with Lightning-Fast Vector Embeddings
---
### **Overview**

DS1 is a next-generation **static embedding** API—delivering unmatched speed, cost efficiency, and flexibility for AI-powered applications. Built for developers and organisations eager to implement semantic search, recommendations, and NLP features without prohibitive compute costs, DS1 makes high-performance AI accessible to everyone by harnessing the speed and simplicity of static embeddings.

{{< contentful-hugo/embedded-asset title="DS1 Image" description="An abstract image representing DS1" url="//images.ctfassets.net/hmvebmrbwhsg/4vcANK9Z5THcB8jN9ywQh3/992bee74f3e6a74d753b2955334d765c/ds1-image.png" filename="ds1-image.png" assetType="image/png" size="1322247" width="1024" height="1024" parentContentType="servicesPage" >}}


### **Key Features**

- **Ultra-Fast Performance**: Generate vector embeddings up to 15x faster than transformer-based models
- **Resource Efficient**: Achieve 85% of transformer-level semantic accuracy with a fraction of the computational resources
- **Model Agnostic**: Our innovative architecture allows us to continuously integrate the best static models as they emerge
- **Deployment Flexibility**: Available as SaaS or for on-premise/VPC deployment to meet security and compliance requirements
- **Developer-Friendly**: Simple integration with standard OpenAI-compatible API calls—swap it in with minimal code changes
- **Cost Effective**: Pay significantly less for embeddings without sacrificing quality

---
### **Use Cases**

**Semantic Search**
Build semantic search that ranks content by meaning and similarity - not just keyword match - using DS1’s static embeddings for robust, low-latency retrieval.

**Recommendation Systems**  
Create content, product, or service recommendations based on similarity and preference signals - delivering personalised results while keeping infrastructure costs low.

**Data Classification & Organization**  
Automatically cluster, categorize, and organise unstructured data (documents, messages, etc.) with speed and efficiency -especially when combined with a high-performance vector database.

**Regulatory Compliance & Analysis**  
For environments with strict data governance, DS1’s on-premise option powers AI-driven analysis and discovery - without your data ever leaving secure infrastructure.

---
### **Why DS1?**

- **Speed That Delights:** Milliseconds matter—DS1’s latency is unrivalled, enhancing user interactions.
- **Radical Cost Efficiency:** Reduce embedding-related infrastructure costs by up to 80% compared to transformer models.  
- **Flexible Data Control:** Keep data where you need it—with both cloud and on-premise deployments.
- **Always Improving:** Our model-agnostic approach ensures ongoing access to the best in static embedding technology, future-proofing your AI stack.

---
### **Technical Specifications**
- **Input Formats**: Text (UTF-8)
- **Vector Dimensions**: 64 dimensions
- **Latency**: As low as 10ms for typical inputs (performance varies by deployment model)
- **API Compatibility**: Drop-in replacement for OpenAI embeddings API
- **Framework Support**: Works seamlessly with LangChain, LlamaIndex, and other leading ML/AI frameworks

# ****Join the Waitlist****

Be among the first to experience DS1&#39;s revolutionary performance. Early access participants will receive:

- Exclusive pricing
- Priority technical support
- Input on feature development
- Extended free trial period

[**Join Waitlist**](/waitlist/) →

_Limited spots available for our closed beta. Sign up now to secure your place._

Commit message:

feat(ds1-page): update DS1 product page

content/what we do/ds1/_index.en-gb.md, after:

---
sys:
  id: "BXyTH26o6EdPb2I57XkzS"
  updatedAt: "2025-07-28T10:58:59.294Z"
  createdAt: "2025-08-01T06:51:43.789Z"
  revision: 14
  space: "hmvebmrbwhsg"
  contentType: "servicesPage"
date: "2025-07-28T10:58:59.294Z"
title: "DS1: Ultra-Efficient Embedding API"
slug: "ds1"
menu: true
group: false
summary: "This is DS1"
---

## DS1 - Embeddings at the speed of thought - Globally Distributed, Ultra-Fast AI Embeddings for Real-Time Business Value.
---
DS1 is the future of AI-powered search, personalisation, and fraud prevention: global, ultra-fast and cost-effective—right at the edge.

{{< contentful-hugo/embedded-asset title="DS1 Image" description="When milliseconds matter, DS1 wins" url="//images.ctfassets.net/hmvebmrbwhsg/4vcANK9Z5THcB8jN9ywQh3/992bee74f3e6a74d753b2955334d765c/ds1-image.png" filename="ds1-image.png" assetType="image/png" size="1322247" width="1024" height="1024" parentContentType="servicesPage" >}}

When milliseconds matter, DS1 wins.

### **The Challenge**

Mainstream embedding APIs are too slow, expensive, and lack data residency for regulated, latency-critical industries—especially when every millisecond counts for fraud detection, recommendations, search, or live analytics.



- **Speed That Delights:** Milliseconds matter—DS1’s <20ms latency is unrivalled, enhancing user interactions.
- **Radical Cost Efficiency:** Reduce embedding-related infrastructure costs by over 50% compared to transformer models.
- **Flexible Data Control:** Keep data where you need it—with both cloud and on-premise deployments.
- **Always Improving:** Our model-agnostic approach ensures ongoing access to the best in static embedding technology, future-proofing your AI stack.

- **Model Agnostic**: Our innovative architecture allows us to continuously integrate the best static models as they emerge
- **Deployment Flexibility**: Available as SaaS or for on-premise/VPC deployment to meet security and compliance requirements
- **Developer-Friendly**: Simple integration with standard OpenAI-compatible API calls—swap it in with minimal code changes
- **Cost Effective**: Pay significantly less for embeddings without sacrificing quality

---
### **Use Cases**

**Semantic Search**
Build semantic search that ranks content by meaning and similarity - not just keyword match - using DS1’s static embeddings for robust, low-latency retrieval.

**Recommendation Systems**  
Create content, product, or service recommendations based on similarity and preference signals - delivering personalised results while keeping infrastructure costs low.

**Data Classification & Organization**  
Automatically cluster, categorize, and organise unstructured data (documents, messages, etc.) with speed and efficiency -especially when combined with a high-performance vector database.

**Regulatory Compliance & Analysis**  
For environments with strict data governance, DS1’s on-premise option powers AI-driven analysis and discovery - without your data ever leaving secure infrastructure.

---
### **Technical Specifications**
- **Input Formats**: Text (UTF-8)
- **Vector Dimensions**: 64 dimensions
- **Latency**: As low as 10ms for typical inputs (performance varies by deployment model)
- **API Compatibility**: Drop-in replacement for OpenAI embeddings API
- **Framework Support**: Works seamlessly with LangChain, LlamaIndex, and other leading ML/AI frameworks

# ****Join the Waitlist****

Be among the first to experience DS1&#39;s revolutionary performance. Early access participants will receive:

- One Page Overview
- Exclusive pricing
- Priority technical support
- Input on feature development
- Extended free trial period

[**Join Waitlist**](/waitlist/) →

_Limited spots available for our closed beta. Sign up now to secure your place._
